---
layout: post
title: Communications 
date: 2019-01-18 13:00:00 +0800
categories: [log]
---
# Overview
Our entire craft consists of 2 parts, the ROV and the Buoy at the surface.
The purpose of the buoy is to store all the wireless receivers (camera receiver and ps2 controller receiver) so that we can still receive the signals while on land. The buoy and the ROV are connected by wires that are 4m in length. These wires serve the purpose of connecting the wireless receivers to the micro-controllers. 

# Power
The entire watercraft is powered by a single LIPO battery, connected to 2 voltage regulators(a 5v regulator and 8v regulator) the 8v regulator main purpose is to supply power to the 2 Arduino boards and camera receiver. The 5v regulators are there to give a logic high of 5v for my motor shield’s enable pins. There is also a direct connection to the 12v  battery for the motors, camera and LED.

# Motors 
As we had 2 different types of motors, 350 GPH bilge pumps and 1100 GPH bilge pumps, we had to take into account the ratings of our motor shields. The 350 GPH bilge pumps takes in 1.5A under normal load while the 1100GPG bilge pumps takes in 3A. Therefore we needed to have a motor driver that can output 3A continuously. The normal L298N motor drovers we used can only output 2A, so we are not able to use them. Eventually we managed to find some Vnh2sp30 motor drivers that are capable enough to drive 14A continuously and take up to 30A max.

# Cable
3 types of wires are used in the whole system. Namely:
1)	Multistrand wires
2)	Pvc insulated multi core cables 
3)	RJ45 Ethernet cable
Multistrand wires are primarily used for connections from micro-controllers  to motor driver shields and circuit boards . As most of the circuit boards and micro-controllers only uses a small amount of current and voltage, the multistrand are suitable for that purpose.
PVC insulated multicore cables are used for motor connections and drawing current from the lipo battery directly as the cables are thick enough to handler high current. Also the pvc insulation helps to waterproof the cables as well so they are used to supply power from the battery in the buoy to the motor shield in the ROV. The estimated maximum current of the whole system is 15A and the PVC cables can handle up to 18amps.
As there are still signals to be sent from the buoy to the ROV, we needed the RJ45 cables to do that. The reason is that RJ45 cables already come together as 8 wires insulated by a single a sheath cover. These makes waterproofing of the cables easier.

# Signal issues faced
The main signalling issue we face was attenuation where the signal gets weaker woth increasing wire length. Initially, the electrical system uses 1 Arduino for control , however we realised that the ps2 receiver was not able to send the signals through the 4m cables(RJ45). The reason is most probably due to the low voltage of the signal given by the receiver(less than or equal to 3.3v). Therefore, we needed to use 2 Arduinos, 2 for the receiver in the buoy, and 1 for the motor controls in the ROV. As the signal voltage we are sending now is 5v, we managed to establish a connection betweeen the ps2 controller and the micro-controllers.
